README.md, before:

[Improvements & Errata - list of corrections](docs/errata)

# C# 11 and .NET 7 - Modern Cross-Platform Development Fundamentals, Seventh Edition

With every Packt book you get a DRM-free PDF version of that book at no cost. Submit your proof of purchase at the following link:
https://packt.link/free-ebook/9781803237800

You can read reviews for this book on [Amazon UK](https://www.amazon.co.uk/11-NET-Cross-Platform-Development-Fundamentals/dp/1803237805#customerReviews) and [Amazon US](https://www.amazon.com/11-NET-Cross-Platform-Development-Fundamentals/dp/1803237805#customerReviews).

Available on Amazon in Paperback or Kindle editions from November 8, 2022: https://packt.link/0ypql

My author page on Amazon: https://www.amazon.com/Mark-J-Price/e/B071DW3QGN/ 

Available on Packt's website in eBook or Print + eBook editions, or included with a Packt Subscription, from November 8, 2022: https://packt.link/p2uyD

All of my books on Packt's website: https://subscription.packtpub.com/search?query=mark+j.+price

## Code solutions for Visual Studio 2022 and Visual Studio Code

If you have Visual Studio 2022 for Windows and Visual Studio Code and its C# extension installed on the same computer, the build process can sometimes conflict. This is because Visual Studio has its own non-standard build server that is different from the standard build server used by .NET SDK. Visual Studio 2022 and Visual Studio Code also use different file types to group projects. So I have duplicated and separated solution code for each product:

- [/vs4win](/vs4win): Visual Studio 2022 for Windows solution files and projects for each chapter
- [/vscode](/vscode): Visual Studio Code workspace files and projects for each chapter

## Command-Lines

To make it easier to enter commands at the prompt, the [Command-Lines](docs/command-lines.md) page lists all commands as a single line that can be copied and pasted.

## Sibling books
![Sibling books](images/B18857_01_01.png)

[GitHub repository for Apps and Services with .NET 7](https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net7)

## Chapters
- Chapter 1 Hello C#, Welcome .NET!
- Chapter 2 Speaking C#
- Chapter 3 Controlling Flow, Converting Types, and Handling Exceptions
- Chapter 4 Writing, Debugging, and Testing Functions
- Chapter 5 Building Your Own Types with Object-Oriented Programming
- Chapter 6 Implementing Interfaces and Inheriting Classes
- Chapter 7 Packaging and Distributing .NET Types
- Chapter 8 Working with Common .NET Types
- Chapter 9 Working with Files, Streams, and Serialization
- Chapter 10 Working with Data Using Entity Framework Core
- Chapter 11 Querying and Manipulating Data Using LINQ
- Chapter 12 Introducing Web Development Using ASP.NET Core
- Chapter 13 Building Websites Using ASP.NET Core Razor Pages
- Chapter 14 Building Websites Using the Model-View-Controller Pattern
- Chapter 15 Building and Consuming Web Services
- Chapter 16 Building User Interface Components Using Blazor

## Bonus content

The appendix and color figures are available to download as PDFs:

- [Appendix A, Answers to the Test Your Knowledge Questions](docs/B18856_Appendix.pdf)
- [Color images of the screenshots/diagrams used in this book](docs/9781803237800_ColorImages.pdf)

## Important
Corrections for typos and other mistakes and improvements like refactoring code. Useful links to other related material. 
- [Book Links](book-links.md)
- [Improvements & Errata - list of corrections](docs/errata)
- [What's New in the 7th Edition](docs/whats-new.md)
- [Seventh edition's support for .NET 8](docs/dotnet8.md)

## Microsoft Certifications
Microsoft used to have exams and certifications for developers that covered skills like C# and ASP.NET. Sadly, they have retired them all. These days, the only developer-adjacent exams and certifications are for Azure or Power Platform, as you can see from the certification poster: https://aka.ms/traincertposter

## Microsoft .NET community support
- [.NET Developer Community](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/community)
- [.NET Tech Community Forums for topic discussions](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/net/ct-p/dotnet)
- [Q&A for .NET to get your questions answered](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/products/dotnet)
- [Technical questions about the C# programming language](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/topics/dotnet-csharp.html)
- [If you'd like to apply to be a reviewer](https://authors.packtpub.com/reviewers/)

## Interviews with me
Podcast interviews with me:
- [The .NET Core Podcast - March 3, 2023](https://dotnetcore.show/episode-117-our-perspectives-on-the-future-of-net-with-mark-j-price/)
- [Yet Another Podcast with Jesse Liberty - December 2022](https://jesseliberty.com/2022/12/10/mark-price-on-c-11-fixed/)
- [The .NET Core Podcast - February 4, 2022](https://dotnetcore.show/episode-91-c-sharp-10-and-dotnet-6-with-mark-j-price/)
- [Yet Another Podcast with Jesse Liberty - May 2021](http://jesseliberty.com/2021/05/16/mark-price-on-c9-and-net-6/)
- [The .NET Core Podcast - February 7, 2020](https://dotnetcore.show/episode-44-learning-net-core-with-mark-j-price/)
- [Yet Another Podcast with Jesse Liberty - February 2020](http://jesseliberty.com/2020/02/23/mark-price-c-net-core/)
- [Packt Podcasts](https://soundcloud.com/packt-podcasts/csharp-8-dotnet-core-3-the-evolution-of-the-microsoft-ecosystem)

Written interviews with me:
- [C# 9 and .NET 5: Book Review and Q&A](https://www.infoq.com/articles/book-interview-mark-price/?itm_source=infoq&itm_campaign=user_page&itm_medium=link)
- [Q&A with Episerver's Mark J. Price, author of C# 9 and .NET 5 - Modern Cross-Platform Development](https://www.episerver.com/articles/q-and-a-with-mark-price)

Commit message:

Add link to chapters 7 and 12

README.md, after:

[Improvements & Errata - list of corrections](docs/errata)

# C# 11 and .NET 7 - Modern Cross-Platform Development Fundamentals, Seventh Edition

With every Packt book you get a DRM-free PDF version of that book at no cost. Submit your proof of purchase at the following link:
https://packt.link/free-ebook/9781803237800

You can read reviews for this book on [Amazon UK](https://www.amazon.co.uk/11-NET-Cross-Platform-Development-Fundamentals/dp/1803237805#customerReviews) and [Amazon US](https://www.amazon.com/11-NET-Cross-Platform-Development-Fundamentals/dp/1803237805#customerReviews).

Available on Amazon in Paperback or Kindle editions from November 8, 2022: https://packt.link/0ypql

My author page on Amazon: https://www.amazon.com/Mark-J-Price/e/B071DW3QGN/ 

Available on Packt's website in eBook or Print + eBook editions, or included with a Packt Subscription, from November 8, 2022: https://packt.link/p2uyD

All of my books on Packt's website: https://subscription.packtpub.com/search?query=mark+j.+price

## Code solutions for Visual Studio 2022 and Visual Studio Code

If you have Visual Studio 2022 for Windows and Visual Studio Code and its C# extension installed on the same computer, the build process can sometimes conflict. This is because Visual Studio has its own non-standard build server that is different from the standard build server used by .NET SDK. Visual Studio 2022 and Visual Studio Code also use different file types to group projects. So I have duplicated and separated solution code for each product:

- [/vs4win](/vs4win): Visual Studio 2022 for Windows solution files and projects for each chapter
- [/vscode](/vscode): Visual Studio Code workspace files and projects for each chapter

## Command-Lines

To make it easier to enter commands at the prompt, the [Command-Lines](docs/command-lines.md) page lists all commands as a single line that can be copied and pasted.

## Sibling books
![Sibling books](images/B18857_01_01.png)

[GitHub repository for Apps and Services with .NET 7](https://github.com/markjprice/apps-services-net7)

## Chapters
- Chapter 1 Hello C#, Welcome .NET!
- Chapter 2 Speaking C#
- Chapter 3 Controlling Flow, Converting Types, and Handling Exceptions
- Chapter 4 Writing, Debugging, and Testing Functions
- Chapter 5 Building Your Own Types with Object-Oriented Programming
- Chapter 6 Implementing Interfaces and Inheriting Classes
- Chapter 7 Packaging and Distributing .NET Types
- Chapter 8 Working with Common .NET Types
- Chapter 9 Working with Files, Streams, and Serialization
- Chapter 10 Working with Data Using Entity Framework Core
- Chapter 11 Querying and Manipulating Data Using LINQ
- Chapter 12 Introducing Web Development Using ASP.NET Core
- Chapter 13 Building Websites Using ASP.NET Core Razor Pages
- Chapter 14 Building Websites Using the Model-View-Controller Pattern
- Chapter 15 Building and Consuming Web Services
- Chapter 16 Building User Interface Components Using Blazor

## Bonus content

Chapters 7 and 12, and the appendix and color figures are available to download as PDFs:

- [Sample Chapters 7 and 12 - C# 11 and .NET 7 - Modern Cross-Platform Development Fundamentals](https://github.com/markjprice/cs11dotnet7/blob/main/docs/Sample%20Chapters%207%20and%2012%20-%20C%23%2011%20and%20.NET%207%20-%20Modern%20Cross-Platform%20Development%20Fundamentals.pdf)
- [Appendix A, Answers to the Test Your Knowledge Questions](docs/B18856_Appendix.pdf)
- [Color images of the screenshots/diagrams used in this book](docs/9781803237800_ColorImages.pdf)

## Important
Corrections for typos and other mistakes and improvements like refactoring code. Useful links to other related material. 
- [Book Links](book-links.md)
- [Improvements & Errata - list of corrections](docs/errata)
- [What's New in the 7th Edition](docs/whats-new.md)
- [Seventh edition's support for .NET 8](docs/dotnet8.md)

## Microsoft Certifications
Microsoft used to have exams and certifications for developers that covered skills like C# and ASP.NET. Sadly, they have retired them all. These days, the only developer-adjacent exams and certifications are for Azure or Power Platform, as you can see from the certification poster: https://aka.ms/traincertposter

## Microsoft .NET community support
- [.NET Developer Community](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/community)
- [.NET Tech Community Forums for topic discussions](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/net/ct-p/dotnet)
- [Q&A for .NET to get your questions answered](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/products/dotnet)
- [Technical questions about the C# programming language](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/topics/dotnet-csharp.html)
- [If you'd like to apply to be a reviewer](https://authors.packtpub.com/reviewers/)

## Interviews with me
Podcast interviews with me:
- [The .NET Core Podcast - March 3, 2023](https://dotnetcore.show/episode-117-our-perspectives-on-the-future-of-net-with-mark-j-price/)
- [Yet Another Podcast with Jesse Liberty - December 2022](https://jesseliberty.com/2022/12/10/mark-price-on-c-11-fixed/)
- [The .NET Core Podcast - February 4, 2022](https://dotnetcore.show/episode-91-c-sharp-10-and-dotnet-6-with-mark-j-price/)
- [Yet Another Podcast with Jesse Liberty - May 2021](http://jesseliberty.com/2021/05/16/mark-price-on-c9-and-net-6/)
- [The .NET Core Podcast - February 7, 2020](https://dotnetcore.show/episode-44-learning-net-core-with-mark-j-price/)
- [Yet Another Podcast with Jesse Liberty - February 2020](http://jesseliberty.com/2020/02/23/mark-price-c-net-core/)
- [Packt Podcasts](https://soundcloud.com/packt-podcasts/csharp-8-dotnet-core-3-the-evolution-of-the-microsoft-ecosystem)

Written interviews with me:
- [C# 9 and .NET 5: Book Review and Q&A](https://www.infoq.com/articles/book-interview-mark-price/?itm_source=infoq&itm_campaign=user_page&itm_medium=link)
- [Q&A with Episerver's Mark J. Price, author of C# 9 and .NET 5 - Modern Cross-Platform Development](https://www.episerver.com/articles/q-and-a-with-mark-price)
